Create Blog Post “detecting-music-with-shazamkit” (#1534)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/detecting-music-with-shazamkit.md

```swift
struct User {
    let name: String
    let jwt: String
    let chatPartnerName: String
    let conversationId = "CONVERSATION_ID"
    
    static let Alice = User(name: "Alice",
                            jwt:"ALICE_JWT",
                            chatPartnerName: "Bob")
    static let Bob = User(name: "Bob",
                          jwt:"BOB_JWT",
                          chatPartnerName: "Alice")
}
```

## Enable Shazam

Once the project is open, ensure that you have a unique bundle identifier and enable automatic signing. 

![Bundle identifier section of Xcode](/content/blog/detecting-music-with-shazamkit/bundle.png)

Next, visit the [identifiers section](http://developer.apple.com/account/resources/identifiers/list) of your account on Apple's developer portal. Locate your bundle identifier, and under *App Services* enable ShazamKit.

![App Services on the developer portal](/content/blog/detecting-music-with-shazamkit/app-services.png)

## Detect Music

> ## Microphone Permissions

Reviewer: Is this meant to be 
```suggestion
### Microphone Permissions
```
?

> To detect the music being played, you will need to access the device's microphone, which requires permission to do so. Your project contains an Info.plist file containing metadata for the app - you will find the file inside the AppToAppChat group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To detect the music being played, you will need to access the device's microphone, which requires your permission. Your project contains an `Info.plist` file containing metadata for the app–you will find the file inside the AppToAppChat group.
```

> A new entry in the Info.plist file is required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new entry in the `Info.plist` file is required:
```

1. Hover your mouse over the last entry in the list and click the little + button that appears.
2. From the dropdown list, pick `Privacy - Microphone Usage Description` and add `To detect music with Shazam` for its value.

> Your Info.plist should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your `Info.plist` should look like this:
```

        AVAudioSession.sharedInstance().requestRecordPermission { (isGranted) in
            print("Microphone permissions \(isGranted)")
        }
    }
    return true
}
```

### Create an Audio Buffer

The app will be using the microphone to continuously detect music in the background, so you will need to create an audio buffer from the microphone to pass to ShazamKit. Open the `ChatViewController.swift` file, import `AVFoundation`, `ShazamKit` and add these properties to the class:

```swift
import UIKit
import ShazamKit
import NexmoClient
import AVFoundation

class ChatViewController: UIViewController {
    
    let session = SHSession()
    let audioEngine = AVAudioEngine()
    var lastMatchID: String = ""

    ... 
}
```

Next add a new function to the class called `startAnalysingAudio`: 

```swift
func startAnalysingAudio() {
    let inputNode = audioEngine.inputNode
    let bus = 0
    inputNode.installTap(onBus: bus, bufferSize: 2048, format: inputNode.inputFormat(forBus: bus)) { (buffer: AVAudioPCMBuffer!, time: AVAudioTime!) -> Void in
        self.session.matchStreamingBuffer(buffer, at: time)
    }
    
    audioEngine.prepare()
    try! audioEngine.start()
}
```

> This function uses [`AVAudioEngine`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/avfaudio/avaudioengine) to access the input of the microphone. `AVAudioEngine` is a robust framework that allows you to manipulate audio by plugging in/chaining node objects. You are only interested in the output, bus 0, of the `inputNode` for this app. The `installTap` function allows you to observe the output and gives you access to an `AVAudioNodeTapBlock`, which is a typealias for an `AVAudioPCMBuffer` and `AVAudioTime` tuple. Both the buffer and time are then passed along to the `matchStreamingBuffer` function on the `SHSession`, which then tries to match any music playing to the Shazam Catalogue. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function uses [`AVAudioEngine`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/avfaudio/avaudioengine) to access the input of the microphone. `AVAudioEngine` is a robust framework that allows you to manipulate audio by plugging in/chaining node objects. You are only interested in the output, `bus 0`, of the `inputNode` for this app. The `installTap` function allows you to observe the output and gives you access to an `AVAudioNodeTapBlock`, which is a typealias for an `AVAudioPCMBuffer` and `AVAudioTime` tuple. Both the buffer and time are then passed along to the `matchStreamingBuffer` function on the `SHSession`, which then tries to match any music playing to the Shazam Catalogue. 
```

> Inversely, you need to add a function called `stopAnalysingAudio` which will safely stop observing the input:

Reviewer: I see what you mean, but the word choice feels a bit funny. 
```suggestion
To end the process, you need to add a function called `stopAnalysingAudio` which will safely stop observing the input:
```
?

```swift
extension ChatViewController: SHSessionDelegate {
    func session(_ session: SHSession, didFind match: SHMatch) {
        if let matchedItem = match.mediaItems.first,
           let title = matchedItem.title,
           let artist = matchedItem.artist,
           let matchId = matchedItem.shazamID, matchId != lastMatchID {
            lastMatchID = matchId
            DispatchQueue.main.async {
                self.send(message: "I am currently listening to: \(title) by \(artist) - Via ShazamKit")
            }
        }
    }
    
    func session(_ session: SHSession, didNotFindMatchFor signature: SHSignature, error: Error?) {
        if error != nil {
            print(error as Any)
        }
    }
}
```

The `didNotFindMatchFor` function is called when ShazamKit found no match or an error. Otherwise, the `didFind` function will be called when a match has been found. 

The matches come back as an array with varying confidence levels, but you will take the first result. Also, the function compares the match ID to the last match to ensure that when you send a message to the chat, it only happens once per match. 

## Try it out

> Build and Run (CMD + R) the project onto your iOS device and also in the simulator. Log into a different user on each device. If you play some music in the background, the physical iOS device will pass the audio buffer to ShazamKit. If a song matches the Shazam catalogue, a message will be sent to the chat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build and Run (CMD + R) the project on your iOS device and also in the simulator. Log in with a different user on each device. If you play some music in the background, the physical iOS device will pass the audio buffer to ShazamKit. If a song matches the Shazam catalogue, a message will be sent to the chat. 
```

![Chat showing a song being matched](/content/blog/detecting-music-with-shazamkit/chat.png)

## What Next?

> You can find the completed project on [GitHub](https://github.com/nexmo-community/swift-app-to-app-shazamkit). You can do a lot more with the Client SDK, learn more about the Client SDK on [developer.nexmo.com](https://developer.nexmo.com/client-sdk/overview) and ShazamKit on [developer.apple.com](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/shazamkit)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the completed project on [GitHub](https://github.com/nexmo-community/swift-app-to-app-shazamkit). You can do a lot more with the Client SDK. Learn more about the Client SDK on [developer.nexmo.com](https://developer.nexmo.com/client-sdk/overview) and ShazamKit on [developer.apple.com](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/shazamkit)
```
